REPUBLIC ACT NO. 9344 — JUVENILE JUSTICE AND WELFARE ACT OF 2006
AN ACT ESTABLISHING A COMPREHENSIVE JUVENILE JUSTICE AND WELFARE SYSTEM, CREATING THE JUVENILE JUSTICE AND WELFARE COUNCIL UNDER THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, APPROPRIATING FUNDS THEREFOR AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES
Approved: April 28, 2006
(Note: several sections below were later amended by RA 10630, 2013 — see ra10630.txt for the amended versions. Where the two differ, RA 10630's version controls.)

SEC. 1. Short Title and Scope. - This Act shall be known as the "Juvenile Justice and Welfare Act of 2006." It shall cover the different stages involving children at risk and children in conflict with the law from prevention to rehabilitation and reintegration.

SEC. 2. Declaration of State Policy. - The following State policies shall be observed at all times:
(a) The State recognizes the vital role of children and youth in nation building and shall promote and protect their physical, moral, spiritual, intellectual and social well-being. It shall inculcate in the youth patriotism and nationalism, and encourage their involvement in public and civic affairs.
(b) The State shall protect the best interests of the child through measures that will ensure the observance of international standards of child protection, especially those to which the Philippines is a party. Proceedings before any authority shall be conducted in the best interest of the child and in a manner which allows the child to participate and to express himself/herself freely.
(c) The State likewise recognizes the right of children to assistance, including proper care and nutrition, and special protection from all forms of neglect, abuse, cruelty and exploitation, and other conditions prejudicial to their development.
(d) Pursuant to Article 40 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, the State recognizes the right of every child alleged as, accused of, adjudged, or recognized as having infringed the penal law to be treated in a manner consistent with the promotion of the child's sense of dignity and worth, taking into account the child's age and desirability of promoting his/her reintegration.
(e) The administration of the juvenile justice and welfare system shall take into consideration the cultural and religious perspectives of the Filipino people, particularly the indigenous peoples and the Muslims, consistent with the protection of the rights of children belonging to these communities.
(f) The State shall apply the principles of restorative justice in all its laws, policies and programs applicable to children in conflict with the law.

SEC. 3. Liberal Construction of this Act. - In case of doubt, the interpretation of any of the provisions of this Act, including its implementing rules and regulations (IRRs), shall be construed liberally in favor of the child in conflict with the law.

SEC. 4. Definition of Terms. - The following terms as used in this Act shall be defined as follows:
(a) "Bail" refers to the security given for the release of the person in custody of the law, furnished by him/her or a bondsman, to guarantee his/her appearance before any court.
(b) "Best Interest of the Child" refers to the totality of the circumstances and conditions which are most congenial to the survival, protection and feelings of security of the child and most encouraging to the child's physical, psychological and emotional development.
(c) "Child" refers to a person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
(d) "Child at Risk" refers to a child who is vulnerable to and at the risk of committing criminal offenses because of personal, family and social circumstances, such as: (1) being abused; (2) being exploited; (3) being abandoned or neglected; (4) coming from a dysfunctional or broken family; (5) being out of school; (6) being a streetchild; (7) being a member of a gang; (8) living in a community with a high level of criminality or drug abuse; and (9) living in situations of armed conflict.
(e) "Child in Conflict with the Law" refers to a child who is alleged as, accused of, or adjudged as, having committed an offense under Philippine laws.
(f) "Community-based Programs" refers to programs provided in a community setting developed for purposes of intervention and diversion, as well as rehabilitation of the child in conflict with the law, for reintegration into his/her family and/or community.
(g) "Court" refers to a family court or, in places where there are no family courts, any regional trial court.
(h) "Deprivation of Liberty" refers to any form of detention or imprisonment, or the placement of a child in conflict with the law in a public or private custodial setting.
(i) "Diversion" refers to an alternative, child-appropriate process of determining the responsibility and treatment of a child in conflict with the law on the basis of his/her social, cultural, economic, psychological or educational background without resorting to formal court proceedings.
(j) "Diversion Program" refers to the program that the child in conflict with the law is required to undergo after he/she is found responsible for an offense without resorting to formal court proceedings.
(k) "Initial Contact With the Child" refers to the apprehension or taking into custody of a child in conflict with the law by law enforcement officers or private citizens.
(l) "Intervention" refers to a series of activities which are designed to address issues that caused the child to commit an offense. It may include counseling, skills training, education, and other activities.
(m) "Juvenile Justice and Welfare System" refers to a system dealing with children at risk and children in conflict with the law, which provides child-appropriate proceedings, including programs and services for prevention, diversion, rehabilitation, re-integration and aftercare.
(n) "Law Enforcement Officer" refers to the person in authority or his/her agent as defined in Article 152 of the Revised Penal Code, including a barangay tanod.
(o) "Offense" refers to any act or omission whether punishable under special laws or the Revised Penal Code, as amended.
(p) "Recognizance" refers to an undertaking in lieu of a bond assumed by a parent or custodian who shall be responsible for the appearance in court of the child in conflict with the law.
(q) "Restorative Justice" refers to a principle which requires a process of resolving conflicts with the maximum involvement of the victim, the offender and the community.
(r) "Status Offenses" refers to offenses which discriminate only against a child, while an adult does not suffer any penalty for committing similar acts, e.g. curfew violations, truancy, parental disobedience.
(s) "Youth Detention Home" refers to a 24-hour child-caring institution managed by accredited LGUs and licensed/accredited NGOs providing short-term residential care for children in conflict with the law awaiting court disposition.
(t) "Youth Rehabilitation Center" refers to a 24-hour residential care facility managed by DSWD, LGUs, or licensed/accredited NGOs, which provides care, treatment and rehabilitation services for children in conflict with the law.
(u) "Victimless Crimes" refers to offenses where there is no private offended party.

SEC. 5. Rights of the Child in Conflict with the Law. - Every child in conflict with the law shall have the following rights, including but not limited to:
(a) the right not to be subjected to torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment;
(b) the right not to be imposed a sentence of capital punishment or life imprisonment, without the possibility of release;
(c) the right not to be deprived, unlawfully or arbitrarily, of his/her liberty; detention or imprisonment being a disposition of last resort, for the shortest appropriate period of time;
(d) the right to be treated with humanity and respect. A child deprived of liberty shall be separated from adult offenders at all times. No child shall be detained together with adult offenders. He/She shall be conveyed separately to or from court and await hearing in a separate holding area. A child has the right to maintain contact with his/her family through correspondence and visits, save in exceptional circumstances;
(e) the right to prompt access to legal and other appropriate assistance, as well as the right to challenge the legality of the deprivation of his/her liberty before a court;
(f) the right to bail and recognizance, in appropriate cases;
(g) the right to testify as a witness in his/her own behalf under the rule on examination of a child witness;
(h) the right to have his/her privacy respected fully at all stages of the proceedings;
(i) the right to diversion if he/she is qualified and voluntarily avails of the same;
(j) the right to be imposed a judgment in proportion to the gravity of the offense where his/her best interest, the rights of the victim and the needs of society are all taken into consideration by the court, under the principle of restorative justice;
(k) the right to have restrictions on his/her personal liberty limited to the minimum, with fine preferred over imprisonment as the more appropriate penalty where discretion is given to the judge;
(l) in general, the right to automatic suspension of sentence;
(m) the right to probation as an alternative to imprisonment, if qualified under the Probation Law;
(n) the right to be free from liability for perjury, concealment or misrepresentation; and
(o) other rights as provided for under existing laws, rules and regulations.
The State further adopts the provisions of the United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the Administration of Juvenile Justice ("Beijing Rules"), the UN Guidelines for the Prevention of Juvenile Delinquency ("Riyadh Guidelines"), and the UN Rules for the Protection of Juveniles Deprived of Liberty.

SEC. 6. Minimum Age of Criminal Responsibility. [AMENDED BY RA 10630 SEC. 3 — see ra10630.txt] Original text: A child fifteen (15) years of age or under at the time of the commission of the offense shall be exempt from criminal liability. However, the child shall be subjected to an intervention program pursuant to Section 20 of this Act. A child above fifteen (15) years but below eighteen (18) years of age shall likewise be exempt from criminal liability and be subjected to an intervention program, unless he/she has acted with discernment, in which case, such child shall be subjected to the appropriate proceedings in accordance with this Act. The exemption from criminal liability herein established does not include exemption from civil liability, which shall be enforced in accordance with existing laws.

SEC. 7. Determination of Age. - The child in conflict with the law shall enjoy the presumption of minority. He/She shall enjoy all the rights of a child in conflict with the law until proven to be eighteen (18) years old or older. Age may be determined from the child's birth certificate, baptismal certificate or any other pertinent documents; in the absence of these, from information given by the child, testimonies of others, physical appearance, and other relevant evidence. In case of doubt as to the age of the child, it shall be resolved in his/her favor.

SEC. 8. Juvenile Justice and Welfare Council (JJWC). [AMENDED BY RA 10630 SEC. 4 — now under DSWD, not DOJ; see ra10630.txt]

SEC. 9. Duties and Functions of the JJWC. [AMENDED BY RA 10630 SEC. 5 — see ra10630.txt]

SEC. 10. Policies and Procedures on Juvenile Justice and Welfare. - All government agencies enumerated in Section 8 shall, with the assistance of the JJWC and within one (1) year from effectivity, draft policies and procedures consistent with the standards set in the law.

SEC. 11. Child Rights Center (CRC). - The existing Child Rights Center of the Commission on Human Rights shall ensure that the status, rights and interests of children are upheld in accordance with the Constitution and international human rights instruments.

SEC. 12. The Family. - The family shall be responsible for the primary nurturing and rearing of children which is critical in delinquency prevention. A child in conflict with the law shall be maintained in his/her family as far as practicable.

SEC. 13. The Educational System. - Educational institutions shall work with families, community organizations and agencies in delinquency prevention and in rehabilitation/reintegration of children in conflict with the law, including alternative learning systems for those in custody.

SEC. 14. The Role of the Mass Media. - The mass media shall promote child rights and delinquency prevention through balanced, non-sensationalized reporting. Undue, inappropriate publicity of a case involving a child in conflict with the law is a violation of the child's rights.

SEC. 15. Establishment and Strengthening of Local Councils for the Protection of Children (LCPC). - LCPCs shall be established in all levels of local government to coordinate a comprehensive plan on delinquency prevention. One percent (1%) of barangay/municipal/city internal revenue allotment shall be allocated for LCPC programs.

SEC. 16. Appointment of Local Social Welfare and Development Officer. - All LGUs shall appoint a duly licensed social worker as its local social welfare and development officer (LSWDO) tasked to assist children in conflict with the law.

SEC. 17. The Sangguniang Kabataan. - The SK shall coordinate with the LCPC in formulating and implementing juvenile intervention and diversion programs in the community.

SEC. 18. Development of a Comprehensive Juvenile Intervention Program. - A comprehensive juvenile intervention program covering at least a 3-year period shall be instituted in LGUs from barangay to provincial level, with an annual budget set aside for it.

SEC. 19. Community-based Programs on Juvenile Justice and Welfare. - Instituted by LGUs through the LCPC, schools, youth organizations, consisting of three levels: (a) Primary intervention — general measures promoting social justice and equal opportunity; (b) Secondary intervention — measures to assist children at risk; (c) Tertiary intervention — measures to avoid unnecessary contact with the formal justice system and prevent re-offending.

SEC. 20. Children Below the Age of Criminal Responsibility. [AMENDED BY RA 10630 SEC. 6 — see ra10630.txt]

SEC. 21. Procedure for Taking the Child into Custody. - From the moment a child is taken into custody, the law enforcement officer shall: (a) explain in simple language/dialect why the child is in custody and the alleged offense; (b) inform the child of the reason for custody and his/her constitutional rights in an understandable language/dialect; (c) properly identify himself/herself; (d) refrain from vulgar/profane language or sexual harassment/abuse; (e) avoid displaying/using firearms, weapons, handcuffs or restraints unless absolutely necessary; (f) refrain from greater restraint than necessary; (g) avoid violence or unnecessary force; (h) determine the age of the child per Section 7; (i) within eight (8) hours of apprehension, turn over custody of the child to the Social Welfare and Development Office or accredited NGO, and notify the child's apprehension; (j) take the child immediately for physical and mental examination, kept confidential; (k) ensure detention quarters, if necessary, are separate from the opposite sex and from adult offenders; (l) record whether restraints were used and why, that parents/guardian/DSWD/PAO were informed, and the age-determination measures taken; (m) ensure all statements signed by the child are witnessed by parent/guardian, social worker, or legal counsel. A child shall only be searched by a law enforcement officer of the same gender and shall not be locked up in a detention cell.

SEC. 22. Duties During Initial Investigation. [AMENDED BY RA 10630 SEC. 7 — see ra10630.txt]

SEC. 23. System of Diversion. - Children in conflict with the law shall undergo diversion programs without court proceedings, subject to conditions: (a) where imposable penalty is not more than six (6) years imprisonment, the law enforcement officer or Punong Barangay with the LSWDO/LCPC shall conduct mediation, family conferencing and conciliation, with the child and family present; (b) in victimless crimes with imposable penalty not more than six (6) years, the LSWDO meets with the child and parents/guardians to develop the diversion/rehabilitation program with the BCPC; (c) where imposable penalty exceeds six (6) years, diversion measures may be resorted to only by the court.

SEC. 24. Stages Where Diversion May be Conducted. - Diversion may be conducted at the Katarungang Pambarangay, police investigation, inquest or preliminary investigation stage, and at all levels/phases including judicial level.

SEC. 25. Conferencing, Mediation and Conciliation. - A child in conflict with the law may undergo conferencing, mediation or conciliation outside the criminal justice system or prior to entry into it. A contract of diversion may be entered into during these proceedings.

SEC. 26. Contract of Diversion. - If the child voluntarily admits the act during conferencing/mediation/conciliation, a diversion program shall be developed. This admission shall not be used against the child in subsequent proceedings. The diversion program is effective and binding once accepted in writing by the parties. The LSWDO supervises implementation. Diversion proceedings shall be completed within forty-five (45) days (period of prescription of offense suspended accordingly, not exceeding 45 days for this step and not exceeding 2 years overall for effectivity of a diversion program). The child must report monthly for evaluation. Failure to comply with the contract of diversion, as certified by the LSWDO, gives the offended party the option to institute appropriate legal action.

SEC. 27. Duty of the Punong Barangay When There is No Diversion. - If diversion doesn't apply or isn't consented to, within three (3) days the Punong Barangay forwards the case records to the law enforcement officer, prosecutor, or appropriate court.

SEC. 28. Duty of the Law Enforcement Officer When There is No Diversion. - Similarly, the Women and Children Protection Desk of the PNP or other officer handling the case forwards records to the prosecutor/judge for inquest/preliminary investigation. Documents transmitting the records must display the word "CHILD" in bold letters.

SEC. 29. Factors in Determining Diversion Program. - (a) nature/circumstances of the offense; (b) frequency/severity of the act; (c) circumstances of the child (age, maturity, intelligence); (d) influence of family/environment; (e) reparation of injury to victim; (f) weight of evidence; (g) safety of the community; (h) best interest of the child.

SEC. 30. Formulation of the Diversion Program. - Individualized treatment based on: (a) the child's feelings of remorse; (b) parents'/guardians' ability to guide and supervise; (c) victim's view on proposed measures; (d) availability of community-based rehabilitation programs.

SEC. 31. Kinds of Diversion Programs. - At the level of the Punong Barangay: restitution of property, reparation of damage, indemnification for consequential damages, written/oral apology, care/guidance/supervision orders, counseling, attendance in trainings/seminars on anger management/conflict resolution/values formation and other skills, participation in community-based programs including community service, or participation in education/vocation/life skills programs. At the level of law enforcement officer/prosecutor: the above plus confiscation/forfeiture of proceeds or instruments of the crime. At the level of the appropriate court: the above plus written/oral reprimand or citation, fine, payment of cost of proceedings, or institutional care and custody.

SEC. 32. Duty of the Prosecutor's Office. - There shall be a specially trained prosecutor to conduct inquest, preliminary investigation, and prosecution of cases involving a child in conflict with the law. Allegations of torture or ill-treatment during arrest/detention must be investigated by the prosecutor.

SEC. 33. Preliminary Investigation and Filing of Information. [AMENDED BY RA 10630 SEC. 8 — see ra10630.txt]

SEC. 34. Bail. - For purposes of recommending the amount of bail, the privileged mitigating circumstance of minority shall be considered.

SEC. 35. Release on Recognizance. - Where a child is detained, the court shall order: (a) release on recognizance to parents/other suitable person; (b) release on bail; or (c) transfer to a youth detention home/rehabilitation center. The court shall not order detention of a child in a jail pending trial or hearing.

SEC. 36. Detention of the Child Pending Trial. - Detention pending trial should be replaced by alternative measures (close supervision, intensive care, placement with family) whenever possible, and used only as a measure of last resort for the shortest possible time. Whenever detention is necessary, the child is detained in youth detention homes established by LGUs. In their absence, the child may be committed to DSWD or a recognized local rehabilitation center.

SEC. 37. Diversion Measures. - Where the maximum penalty for the offense charged is imprisonment of not more than twelve (12) years (regardless of fine, or fine alone regardless of amount), and before arraignment, the court shall determine whether diversion is appropriate.

SEC. 38. Automatic Suspension of Sentence. - Once a child under eighteen (18) at the time of the offense is found guilty, instead of pronouncing judgment of conviction, the court places the child under suspended sentence without need of application — even applicable if the child is already eighteen (18) or more at the time of pronouncement of guilt. The court imposes appropriate disposition measures per the Supreme Court Rule on Juveniles in Conflict with the Law.

SEC. 39. Discharge of the Child in Conflict with the Law. - Upon recommendation of the social worker with custody of the child, the court dismisses the case and finally discharges the child once it finds the objectives of the disposition measures fulfilled. Discharge does not affect civil liability.

SEC. 40. Return of the Child in Conflict with the Law to Court. - If disposition measures' objectives are not fulfilled or the child willfully fails to comply, the child is brought before the court for execution of judgment. If the child reaches eighteen (18) while under suspended sentence, the court determines whether to discharge, order execution of sentence, or extend the suspended sentence up to age twenty-one (21).

SEC. 41. Credit in Service of Sentence. - The child is credited with the full time spent in actual commitment/detention under this Act.

SEC. 42. Probation as an Alternative to Imprisonment. - The court may, after convicting and sentencing a child, place the child on probation in lieu of serving the sentence, taking into account the child's best interest.

SEC. 43. Confidentiality of Records and Proceedings. - All records and proceedings involving a child in conflict with the law, from initial contact until final disposition, are privileged and confidential. Public is excluded during proceedings; records are not disclosed except to determine suspension of sentence/probation eligibility or enforce civil liability. Authorities must protect confidentiality, including maintaining a separate police blotter and a coding system to conceal identity. A child's records shall not be used in subsequent proceedings for the same offender as an adult, except when beneficial to the offender and with written consent. A former child in conflict with the law cannot be held guilty of perjury/concealment for not disclosing the case.

SEC. 44. Objective of Rehabilitation and Reintegration. - To provide interventions/approaches/strategies enabling improved social functioning, with the end goal of reintegration to family and community as productive members.

SEC. 45. Court Order Required. - No child shall be received in any rehabilitation/training facility without a valid court order after a hearing.

SEC. 46. Separate Facilities from Adults. - Mandatory separation of children from adults in all rehabilitation/training facilities, unless members of the same family. No exceptions otherwise.

SEC. 47. Female Children. - Female children in conflict with the law placed in an institution receive special attention, handled by female doctors/correction officers/social workers, accommodated separately from male children.

SEC. 48. Gender-Sensitivity Training. - No personnel of rehabilitation/training facilities may handle children in conflict with the law without gender sensitivity training.

SEC. 49. Establishment of Youth Detention Homes. [AMENDED BY RA 10630 SEC. 9 — retitled "Bahay Pag-asa"; see ra10630.txt]

SEC. 50. Care and Maintenance of the Child in Conflict with the Law. [PARTIALLY AMENDED BY RA 10630 SEC. 10 — see ra10630.txt]

SEC. 51. Confinement of Convicted Children in Agricultural Camps and other Training Facilities. - A child may, after conviction and upon court order, serve sentence in an agricultural camp/training facility maintained by BUCOR in coordination with DSWD, in lieu of a regular penal institution.

SEC. 52. Rehabilitation of Children in Conflict with the Law. - Children whose sentences are suspended may undergo disposition measures suited to rehabilitation, including community-based programs: competency/life skills development, socio-cultural/recreational activities, community volunteer projects, leadership training, social services, homelife services, health services, spiritual enrichment, and community/family welfare services.

SEC. 53. Youth Rehabilitation Center. - Provides 24-hour group care, treatment, rehabilitation under trained staff in a structured therapeutic environment, with quarterly progress reports to the court. DSWD establishes youth rehabilitation centers in each region.

SEC. 54. Objectives of Community Based Programs. - (a) prevent disruption of education/livelihood; (b) prevent separation from parents/guardians; (c) facilitate rehabilitation/mainstreaming with community support; (d) minimize stigma by preventing jail detention.

SEC. 55. Criteria of Community-Based Programs. - Every LGU establishes community-based rehabilitation/reintegration programs meeting JJWC criteria, considering the program's purpose, need for consent of child/parents, and participation of child-centered agencies.

SEC. 56. After-Care Support Services for Children in Conflict with the Law. - Children whose cases are dismissed due to good behavior receive after-care services (counseling, community-based services) from the LSWDO for at least six (6) months.

SEC. 57. Status Offenses. [AMENDED BY RA 10630 SEC. 11 — adds SEC. 57-A on Violations of Local Ordinances; see ra10630.txt] Original text: Any conduct not considered an offense or not penalized if committed by an adult shall not be considered an offense and shall not be punished if committed by a child.

SEC. 58. Offenses Not Applicable to Children. - Persons below eighteen (18) are exempt from prosecution for vagrancy/prostitution (RPC Sec. 202), mendicancy (PD 1563), and rugby-sniffing (PD 1619), being inconsistent with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Such persons undergo appropriate counseling and treatment instead.

SEC. 59. Exemption from the Application of Death Penalty. - No death penalty shall be imposed on children in conflict with the law, notwithstanding the RPC, RA 9165 (Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act), or other special laws.

SEC. 60. Prohibition Against Labeling and Shaming. - Competent authorities must refrain from branding/labeling children as young criminals, juvenile delinquents, prostitutes, or any derogatory name, from the initial contact onward. No discriminatory remarks/practices based on class or ethnic origin.

SEC. 61. Other Prohibited Acts. - Prohibited: (a) threats of any kind; (b) abusive/coercive/punitive measures (cursing, beating, stripping, solitary confinement); (c) degrading/inhuman/cruel punishment (head-shaving, corrosive substances, forced public humiliation); (d) compelling involuntary servitude in any form.

SEC. 62. Violation of the Provisions of this Act or Rules or Regulations in General. - Any person violating this Act or its IRR is punished, upon conviction, by a fine of P20,000–P50,000 or imprisonment of 8–10 years, or both, at the court's discretion, unless a higher penalty applies under the RPC or special laws. A public officer/employee is additionally held administratively liable with perpetual absolute disqualification.

SEC. 63. Appropriations. [AMENDED BY RA 10630 SEC. 13 — see ra10630.txt]

SEC. 64. Children in Conflict with the Law Fifteen (15) Years Old and Below. - Upon effectivity, cases of children 15 and below at the time of the offense are immediately dismissed and referred to the LSWDO for assessment. Those with suspended sentences undergoing rehabilitation are likewise released unless contrary to the child's best interest.

SEC. 65. Children Detained Pending Trial. - The Family Court determines whether continued detention is necessary; if detained with adults, the court immediately orders transfer to a youth detention home.

SEC. 66. Inventory of "Locked-up" and Detained Children in Conflict with the Law. - PNP, BJMP, and BUCOR submit an inventory of all children in conflict with the law under their custody to the JJWC within ninety (90) days of effectivity.

SEC. 67. Children Who Reach the Age of Eighteen (18) Years Pending Diversion and Court Proceedings. - The appropriate diversion authority or Family Court determines the appropriate disposition; the child may apply for probation if qualified.

SEC. 68. Children Who Have Been Convicted and are Serving Sentence. - Persons convicted and serving sentence who were minors at the time of the offense benefit retroactively from this Act; sentences adjusted accordingly; immediate release if qualified.

SEC. 69. Rule Making Power. - The JJWC shall issue the IRRs within ninety (90) days from effectivity.

SEC. 70. Separability Clause. - If any section is declared unconstitutional, the rest remains in force.

SEC. 71. Repealing Clause. - All inconsistent existing laws, orders, decrees, rules and regulations are repealed or modified accordingly.

SEC. 72. Effectivity. - This Act took effect fifteen (15) days after publication in at least two (2) national newspapers of general circulation (April 28, 2006 approval).
